

===== PAGE 1 =====
StageACT: Stage-Conditioned Imitation for Robust
Humanoid Door Opening
Moonyoung Lee ∗, Dong-Ki Kim, Jai Krishna Bandi, Max Smith, Aileen Liao ∗,
Ali-akbar Agha-mohammadi, Shayegan Omidshafiei
FieldAI
Fig. 1: Autonomous door opening by the G1 humanoid robot in a real-world office. Time-synchronized front (top) and back (bottom) views illustrate the
full sequence of contact-rich, long-horizon loco-manipulation task: approaching the handle, rotating the latch, pushing the door open, and walking through.
This demonstration highlights StageACT’s ability to couple locomotion with manipulation and complete the task autonomously without external sensing
(e.g., AR tags) or privileged door information.
Abstract— Humanoid robots promise to operate in everyday
human environments without requiring modifications to the
surroundings. Among the many skills needed, opening doors
is essential, as doors are the most common gateways in built
spaces and often limit where a robot can go. Door opening,
however, poses unique challenges as it is a long-horizon task
under partial observability, such as reasoning about the door’s
unobservable latch state that dictates whether the robot should
rotate the handle or push the door. This ambiguity makes
standard behavior cloning prone to mode collapse, yielding
blended or out-of-sequence actions. We introduceStageACT, a
stage-conditioned imitation learning framework that augments
low-level policies with task-stage inputs. This effective addition
increases robustness to partial observability, leading to higher
success rates and shorter completion times. On a humanoid
operating in a real-world office environment,StageACTachieves
a 55% success rate on previously unseen doors, more than
doubling the best baseline. Moreover, our method supports in-
tentional behavior guidance through stage prompting, enabling
recovery behaviors. These results highlight stage conditioning
as a lightweight yet powerful mechanism for long-horizon
humanoid loco-manipulation. A highlight video can be found in:
https://icradooropen.github.io/icradooropen/.
∗ML and AL conducted this work during their internships at FieldAI.
ML is with Carnegie Mellon University, and AL is with University of
Pennsylvania.
I. INTRODUCTION
Humanoid robots offer unique advantages over wheeled
platforms or fixed manipulators by combining the traversabil-
ity of legged locomotion with the dexterity required for
contact-rich manipulation. Among the many tasks that benefit
from this combination, door opening is particularly impor-
tant, as doors often define the boundaries of where robots
can operate. Since the DARPA Robotics Challenge in 2015
[1] door opening has remained a canonical benchmark,
yet most existing approaches have relied on wheeled or
quadruped platforms [2]–[4]. Humanoid systems typically
decouple locomotion from manipulation, whereas successful
door interaction requires tight coupling of the two [5].
Humanoids are naturally well-suited for this challenge, as
their morphology reflects the ergonomic design of doors.
Recent advances have demonstrated impressive humanoid
agility [6]–[9] and generalization across diverse tasks [10]–
[13]. Yet progress in locomotion and manipulation has
largely remained separate. Manipulation efforts, in particular,
often focus on pick-and-place tasks, which capture only a
narrow subset of the contact-rich interactions required in
real-world.
arXiv:2509.13200v2  [cs.RO]  18 Sep 2025


===== PAGE 2 =====
Door opening introduces challenges beyond typical manip-
ulation. The robot must reason about articulated affordances,
as both door and handle are constrained to predefined axes.
These contact-rich interactions require precise yet robust
control of dynamics, especially in high degree-of-freedom
humanoid systems [1]. Moreover, the task is inherently non-
Markovian and partially observable. Key information such as
latch state of the handle or the door’s articulation direction
are not directly observable [2], [14]. As a result, visually sim-
ilar observations may correspond to different states, leading
to errors during critical transitions such as unlatching. This
can be detrimental for the robot to incorrectly perceive the
believed state, and this ambiguity can cause mode collapse
especially in long-horizon tasks [15]. Teleoperation from
human demonstrations may worsen the issue, as human
operators rely on internal memory of task progress that may
not be directly observable from the sensors.
Early solutions, including those from the DARPA Robotics
Challenge, relied on explicit modeling of geometry, contact
points, and modular controllers [1], [16]. More recently,
learning-based methods have shown that imitation learning
or reinforcement learning can capture these complexities
implicitly, demonstrating door opening with quadrupeds and
wheeled manipulators [3], [4], [14]. Yet these systems often
assume prior knowledge of door parameters or depend on ex-
ternal sensing (e.g., AR tags), and few extend to humanoids.
Notably, existing demonstrations of humanoid door opening
remain mostly teleoperated [5].
Despite the complexities involved in door opening, to
humans the task is seemingly quotidian. Our key insight is
inspired by the natural strategies humans adopt: decomposing
the long-horizon task into stages such as approaching, grasp-
ing, unlatching, and pushing. These stages not only structure
the temporal sequence of actions but also reflect transitions
in underlying contact dynamics. We implement this idea by
explicitly conditioning the low-level imitation learning policy
on a low-dimensional task stage information. Although a
simple addition to the policy architecture, we observe the sur-
prising effect that stage-conditioning significantly improves
success rate. In particular, the stage-conditioned policy can
disambiguate otherwise identical observations using temporal
context from the state, and it enables emergent recovery be-
haviors by re-entering earlier phases when failures occur with
state-prompting. This enables the policy to address the long-
horizon, partially observable nature of door opening more
effectively than standard imitation learning which generally
has a limited context window size of a few states.
To summarize, our contributions are:
•We demonstrate, to our knowledge, the first autonomous
loco-manipulation policy for humanoid door opening,
trained entirely from human demonstrations without re-
lying on external sensing or privileged door information.
•We introduce a stage-conditioned imitation learning
framework for long-horizon tasks, and show that stage-
conditioned policies significantly outperform standard
behavior cloning, particularly in resolving observation
ambiguity and enabling failure recovery.
II. RELATEDWORKS
A. Contact-rich Humanoid Loco-Manipulation
Recent advances in humanoid whole-body control have
demonstrated impressive agility, such as jumping [6] and
crouching to pick up objects [17], [18]. Two main approaches
have emerged: decomposition frameworks, which separate
lower-body locomotion from upper-body control [17], [19]–
[21], and monolithic frameworks, which train a single RL
policy across all joints [6]–[8], [11], [22]. While monolithic
methods enable robust and versatile motions, decomposi-
tion provides precise upper-body control crucial for contact
interactions [5]. To acquire upper-body data, works have
used motion retargeting from MoCap [11], [23], exoskeleton-
based teleoperation [17], vision-based tracking with motion
priors [8], or VR teleoperation [18]–[20]. These approaches
are effective for motion imitation and whole-body coordina-
tion, but most focus on reference following, leaving contact-
rich loco-manipulation as an open challenge.
Door opening exemplifies the challenges of contact-rich
tasks [1]. Quadrupeds and wheeled bases have shown notable
progress in general loco-manipulation [24]–[26], though only
a few address door interaction directly. Prior works rely
on explicit state estimation or prior knowledge of door
parameters, such as AR markers for state tracking or as-
sumptions on articulation models [2], [3], [14]. Efforts to
open a variety of doors in the wild showed early promise
toward generalization [4] but were constrained to wheeled
platforms with limited mobility. Humanoids, by contrast,
must maintain balance while exerting contact forces, making
the problem considerably harder. Although door opening is
a canonical benchmark [1], work on humanoids remains
scarce, with recent efforts [5] demonstrating door opening
only in teleoperated settings rather than fully autonomous
operation.
B. Encoding State in Long-Horizon Manipulation
Imitation learning (IL) has achieved impressive results,
but extending these methods to long-horizon, multi-stage
tasks remains difficult. A common strategy is to decompose
tasks into stage-specific policies [27], or in hierarchical
frameworks [28], where a high-level controller sequences
primitives and retries after failures. While effective, such
decomposition can scale poorly, as overall success hinges
on many specialized components. Recent work therefore
emphasizes single, general policies conditioned on auxiliary
inputs, which offer better scalability and generalization [29].
Conditioning signals vary widely: more generally, language
instructions can specify sub-goals or corrections [10], [29],
[30] while explicitly, stage or sub-goal labels can temporally
ground policies [15], [28].
Conditioning is particularly valuable in contact-rich set-
tings, where raw visuomotor inputs often fail to capture
subtle transitions between contact modes. To address this,
multimodal signals such as force, torque, or tactile feedback


===== PAGE 3 =====
Whole Body T eleoperation Setup
Yaw
Hand,
Fingers
Hand
Fingers
Waist
Walk Velocity
Teleoperation InputUpper 
Body
Lower 
Body
Robot Input
Lower Velocity 
𝑉𝑡
𝑥𝑦𝑧
Image
𝐼𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑎𝑑
Inverse 
Kinematics
Upper State
𝑞𝑡
𝑢𝑝𝑝𝑒𝑟
Dataset
Fig. 2: Overview of the whole-body teleoperation setup for the G1 humanoid
robot. Separating upper- and lower-body control provides a more natural
interface, enabling two operators to jointly collect demonstrations for the
loco-manipulation task.
are incorporated, either implicitly [31], [32] via sensor fu-
sion or explicitly [15] via stage predictors to disambiguate
transitions between stages. Representations also differ: some
use discrete one-hot tokens for skills [33] while others
employ continuous progress variables for task completeness.
In humanoid contexts, conditioning has been applied through
explicit state machines that switch among RL-trained skills
for box manipulation [22] or follow pre-defined contact-
sequences [7]. In contrast, our method uses a single policy
conditioned only on stage input, avoiding explicit separation
between locomotion and manipulation
III. WHOLE-BODYTELEOPERATION
A. Whole-Body Teloperation
The door-opening task requires rotating a spring-loaded
handle to unlatch the door and then pushing it open, making
it a two-degree-of-freedom interaction. Because both the
handle and the door are pre-tensioned with springs, the latch
re-engages if the handle is not rotated past a certain threshold
or if the hand slips before pushing. As a result, the task is
non–quasi-static and demands whole-body coordination to
simultaneously manage contact forces, door articulation, and
locomotion. During execution, the humanoid presses down
on the handle with the bottom of its left fist to apply torque
and disengage the latch. Once unlatched, it pushes the door
with the right hand and walks through to complete the task.
Our teleoperation setup (Fig. 2) uses a Unitree G1 hu-
manoid with Dex-3 hands, paired with an Apple Vision Pro
(A VP) headset that captures the operator’s poses and maps
them to the robot via inverse kinematics (IK). The system
builds on [19], which focused on tabletop teleoperation,
but we extend it to support locomotion. A head-mounted
RealSense camera streams egocentric images to the A VP,
while retargetting of the human hand poses to the robot’s
arm is solved with closed-loop IK (Pinocchio [34]) and
retargetting of human finger to Dex3 is solved with an
Joint PosJoint torqueImage
S1 S2 StageS3 S4 S5
One-hot 
Stage vector
Image
Robot
State
Latent
ACTEnc
Enc
Enc
Action SequenceState Selection
Fig. 3: TheStageACTframework combines stage-level guidance with low-
level control, allowing policies to disambiguate partial observations and
execute contact-rich tasks more reliably.
optimization tool [35]. Finally the yaw obtained from A VP’s
IMU is mapped to the robot’s waist joint.
For lower-body control, we map Xbox controller inputs to
Unitree’s locomotion API, bounding commanded velocities
within[−1,1]m/s. This decoupled control allows the oper-
ator to issue simple velocity commands for walking while
relying on IK-based retargeting for precise arm and hand
motions. In our experience, the separation of teleoperation
roles (locomotion through joystick and manipulation through
A VP) greatly reduces operator burden yet maintains effective
whole-body coordination. Because the door–handle gap is
narrow, inserting the non-compliant and bulky Dex-3 fingers
was unreliable. Instead, much like how humans often press
rather than grasp, we found that pushing down with the
bottom of the fist provided a more stable and sufficient
strategy for rotating the handle.
B. Dataset
Dataset consists of 135 successful door-opening demon-
strations over two days in two office environments with dif-
ferent lighting conditions, background appearance, and door
dynamics (e.g., handle stiffness and hinge damping). In total,
the teleoperation time exceeds eight hours.Each trial lasted
approximately 20-30 seconds, where trajectories with failed
attempts or collisions are removed to ensure consistency.
Each demonstration trajectoryτ i is represented as a sequence
of observation–action pairs{(o t, at)}T
t=1, whereo t denotes
the observation at timetanda t the corresponding action.
Observations consist of an RGB imageI t ∈R 480×640×3
from a head-mounted RealSense camera, the upper-body
joint stateq upper
t ∈R 29 including 14 arm, 14 hand, and
1 waist joint positions. Actions are defined as the target
joint positions combined together with locomotion velocity
commandsV xyz
t ∈R 3, yieldinga t ∈R 32. Following
ACT [12], the dataset is structured for supervised learning
by dividing trajectories into fixed-length action chunks of
horizonH, such that each training sample maps the current
observationo t to its future action sequencea t:t+H. Formally,
this results in the datasetD={(o t, at:t+H )|t∈[1, T−H]}.
This chunking process expands the 135 demonstrations into


===== PAGE 4 =====
Stage 1: Search Stage 2: Approach Stage 3: Rotate Stage 4: Push Stage 5: Stop
Fig. 4: Timelapse of the long-horizon door opening task categorized into sub-stages. From varying initial positions, the robot searches for the handle,
rotates it by pressing down with the left fist (preferred over grasping for more reliable teleoperation), and then pushes the door open with the right arm
while walking through.
Rotate Waist Left arm 
approach handle
Left arm 
rotate handle
Walk forward,
Right arm push S5: Stop Right arm lower,
Walk stop End
S2: Approach S3: Rotate
S4: Push
Joint Position Joint Torque
Left 
Shoulder
 Pitch
Right 
Shoulder
 Pitch
S1: Search
S1 S2
Stage
S3 S4 S5 S1 S2
Stage
S3 S4 S5
Fig. 5: Egocentric timelapse of the door opening task segmented into sub-
stages. Visual observations alone make Stage 2 (approach) and Stage 4
(push) difficult to distinguish, so stage annotation during post-processing
also relies on proprioceptive cues. Joint position and torque traces, shown
for the shoulder pitch of both arms, can capture transitions cues associated
with contact events.
thousands of training examples, providing greater data effi-
ciency and enabling the model to learn temporally coherent
action predictions.
IV. LOCO-MANIPULATIONLEARNINGFRAMEWORK
A. Imitation Learning framework
Our method,StageACT, builds upon the Action Chunk-
ing Transformer (ACT) [12], extending it with stage-
conditioning to address the challenges of partial observability
for long-horizon loco-manipulation task.
Following the ACT framework,StageACTframes imita-
tion learning as a generative modeling problem. The core
idea is to represent human demonstrations not as single
deterministic trajectories but as distributions over feasible
action sequences. ACT achieves this by structuring the policy
as a conditional variational autoencoder (CV AE)[36], trained
to generate action sequences conditioned on current obser-
vations. The CV AE encoder maps the robot’s current joint
state together with the demonstrated target action sequence
into a latent variablez. This latent captures the variability of
human demonstrations providing the policy with expressive
capacity beyond direct behavior cloning. At test time, the
encoder is discarded and the latent is fixed to a zero-mean
Gaussian.
The CV AE decoder is implemented as a transformer that
aggregates multiple input modalities through self-attention
as shown in Fig. 3. Specifically, it receives the current
camera imageI t, the robot joint stateq upper
t , and the latent
variablez. The decoder outputs robot actions ofa t, including
joint positionq upper
t and locomotion velocityV xyz
t . Training
optimizes two objectives: a reconstruction loss to imitate the
demonstrated trajectory, and a KL-divergence regularizer to
constrain the encoder to a Gaussian. We adopt the chunking
and temporal ensembling strategy proposed in ACT, whereby
the policy predicts short horizon chunks of 100 steps or
(approximately 3 seconds) and aggregates them with tempo-
ral smoothing. This design improves stability during long-
horizon execution and prevents jittering in the robot’s low-
level controllers. Hyperparameters and training procedures
follow those of the original ACT work, with modifications
only to accommodate stage-conditioning described below.
Training on RTX5090 GPU took about 4 hours and inference
ran at 30 Hz.
B. Stage Conditioning
While ACT provides a strong imitation baseline, applying
imitation learning directly to non-Markovian, long-horizon
tasks remains difficult [28]. Recent works have sought to
mitigate this challenge by conditioning policies on higher-
level signals such as sub-stages [28], skill-sets [33], or even
language instructions [10], [29]. As we are focused on a
single policy to solve a specific task of opening a door
rather than generalizing to variety of tasks, we opt for
the lightweight approach of stage-conditioning to guide hu-
manoid loco-manipulation. The door opening task naturally
decomposes into five stages as shown in Fig. 4.
•(S1)searching for the handle,
•(S2)approaching handle with left arm,
•(S3)rotating the handle,
•(S4)pushing against door with right arm,
•(S5)stop walking and lower arm to rest position.
The starting and ending conditions for each of the stages
are defined by the human annotator post-processing and
segmenting the demonstration trajectories. From the robot’s


===== PAGE 5 =====
Fig. 6: Comparison of a success case (A) with two failure cases under the baseline imitation learning policy (B, C). In (A), the commanded actions (red)
closely track the expert trajectories (green). In (B), the left hand collides with the handle after failing to reach high enough, reflecting trajectory averaging
where both arms are lifted simultaneously. In (C), the base initiates walking prematurely, triggering motions out of sequence.
egocentric view, a closed door can look the same in different
stages (Fig. 5). For example, a partial view of the door with
an initial arm pose could mean either (S1) approaching the
handle or (S4) starting to push after the handle is unlatched.
Joint torque; however, is informative for detecting when
contact forces start or stop. We annotate demonstrations by
combining visual inspection with proprioceptive cues from
joint positions and torques. Absolute torque levels are hard
to interpret across the whole task, but sharp spikes mark
transitions such as grasping the handle or pushing the door.
By conditioning the policy on an explicit stage label, we add
temporal context that resolves these visual ambiguities and
helps prevent mode collapse.
During training and evaluation, these stage labels are
encoded as one-hot vectors and concatenated with the inputs
to the policy. The stage-vector is input to low-level policy at
regular intervals, with stage-conditioning serving as a high-
level guide. This design not only improves robustness and
task success but also enables controllability at test time,
where explicit stage prompts allow recovery behaviors and
even out-of-sequence executions beyond the demonstration
data, as we demonstrate in the next section.
V. EXPERIMENTALRESULTS
We evaluate our approach with respect to two central
questions. (Q1) Compared to a standard imitation learning
baseline, how much does stage-conditioning improve policy
performance? (Q2) Beyond replaying sequential motions in
the demonstration dataset, can stage-conditioning be used to
guide novel behaviors through stage prompting? Performance
is measured using success rate, task completion time, and
tracking error in both upper and lower body defined as:
Eupper
tracking

qupper*
t

= 1
T
TX
t=1
qupper
t −q upper*
t
 ,(1)
Eroot
tracking

V *
t

= 1
T
TX
t=1
V xyz
t −V xyz∗
t
 .(2)
A. Door Opening Performance
We first test on a previously unseen door, training on
two doors and evaluating on a third. Although all doors
share the same type, the test environment differs in both
appearance (e.g., lighting, carpet, surrounding furniture) and
door dynamics (e.g., handle stiffness and hinge damping).
To verify policy’s robustness rather than merely memorizing
the demonstrated trajectories, the robot’s initial distance and
orientation relative to the door were randomized, sometimes
with the handle in view and sometimes requiring torso
rotation to locate it. We compare three policies:
•ACTthe baseline imitation learning model,
•ACT with historyfrom last 5 observations to mitigate
partial observability,
•StageACTour policy with stage-conditioning.
TABLE I: Door opening performance across different ACT model variants.
HigherSuccess(success rate) and lowerTime(completion time) indicate
better performance.
Model SR (%)↑Time (s)↓E upper
tracking ↓E root
tracking ↓
ACT 20 27.5 0.44 0.05
ACT with history 10 22.2 0.52 0.06
StageACT (ours)55 20.7 0.34 0.04


===== PAGE 6 =====
TABLE II: Performance across stages. Fraction is number-of-successes/number-of-attempts. Higher is better. Each stage’s total attempts come from the
previous stage’s successes.
Model S1: Search S2: Approach S3: Rotate S4: Push S5: Stop
ACT 20/20 7/20 6/7 4/6 4/4
ACT with history 8/10 5/8 1/5 1/1 1/1
StageACT 19/20 17/19 12/17 11/12 11/11
Across 50 trials (20, 10, and 20 respectively), our method
achieved the highest success rate of 55%, more than doubling
the best baseline as seen in Table I. Stage-conditioning
also reduced task completion time by preventing robot arm
wandering when the policy encountered out-of-distribution
states. The per-stage breakdown (Table II) sheds light on
the advantage of stage-conditioning. The approach stage
(S2) proved most ambiguous for the baseline, as visual
and proprioceptive cues resembled both reaching (S2) and
pushing (S4). This often led to mode collapse, where the
baseline blended trajectories (e.g., lifting left arm to approach
handleandright arm to push door) and therefore not lifting
the left arm fully above the handle as in Fig. 6 (B) or skipped
stages entirely—jumping from search (S1) to push (S4) as
in Fig. 6(C). Quantitatively, the baseline achieved only 7/20
successes inS2, while stage-conditioning achieved 17/19.
The main failure mode for our method was the rotation
stage (S3), which expectedly is the most complex stage
requiring door handle rotated fully to disengage the latch
while immediately transitioning to pushing before the handle
springs back up. We also observeE upper
tracking andE root
tracking lowest
forStageACT. The ground truth forq upper
t andV xyz
t are
reported from mean trajectory from expert demonstrations,
normalized to match trial duration.
B. Behavior Guidance
Beyond improving success rates, stage-conditioning en-
abled recovery behaviors absent in baseline policies. Since
failed demonstrations were excluded from training, the
baseline never attempted retries. In contrast, given stage-
prompting to return toS1whenS2failed, our policy could
revert to an earlier stages and retry approaching the handle,
most often after incomplete handle rotations. Fig. 7 shows
such recoveries.
We further investigate whether stage-conditioning provides
controllability over the low-level policy by prompting non-
sequential stage labels. For example, we directed the policy
to executeS1→S4→S5, skipping the canonicalS2and
S3. Despite the ambiguity betweenS2andS4, the policy
executed actions consistent with the prompted stage rather
than immediate observations. This intentional non-sequential
TABLE III: Ablation study on stage input for door opening. HigherSuccess
(success rate) and lowerTime(completion time) indicate better performance.
Model Success (%)↑
Stage GT humans (ours) 60
Stage 0 constant 0
Stage random 0
Stage 1: Search
Stage 3 – Successful Rotation
Undesired 
motion
1 2 3 4
5 6 7
 8
Stage 3 – Failed Handle Rotation 
Stage 2: Approach Stage 4: Push
Recovery
4
Undesired
Motion
Stage 2: Approach
Fig. 7: Guiding the low-level policy with stage commands enables recovery
behaviors during the contact-rich handle rotation stage. Without stage
guidance, the right arm advances immediately after the left arm moves,
regardless of whether the latch is released. With stage-conditioning, this
premature motion is suppressed, allowing the policy to retry and complete
the rotation.
motion is beneficial for example when the door handle latch
is disabled, allowing the robot to directly push open the door
even though such demonstrations were absent in the dataset.
Finally, we ablated the stage input conditioning. As sum-
marized in Table III, constant-zero and random labels led
to degraded performance, while human-guided stage inputs
maintained high success. This confirms that the policy lever-
ages stage-conditioning as a meaningful control signal rather
than ignoring it.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this work, we presented StageACT, a stage-conditioned
imitation learning framework for long-horizon humanoid
door opening. By conditioning low-level policies on stage
inputs, our approach improves robustness to observational
ambiguity, shortens task completion time, and enables recov-
ery behaviors that baseline imitation policies cannot achieve.
Moreover, we showed that stage-conditioning allows inten-
tional behavior guidance through prompting, enabling novel
out-of-sequence executions not present in the training data.
Future work.Building on these contributions, we see
several natural extensions. Our current system focuses on
door pushing indicates a strong potential for door pulling.
With additional parameterization, we expect to generalize
across diverse door types and configurations (push/pull,
left/right hinges, articulation styles). Future work will also
investigate the use of VLMs in automatically labeling stages
during training and, ultimately, serve as high-level classifiers
at test time. More broadly, as robot foundation models


===== PAGE 7 =====
underscore the value of large-scale demonstrations, a key
direction is sharing sub-trajectories and task segments across
task categories. We believe stage conditioning, paired with
automated stage annotation, offers a strong path toward
scalable, general-purpose loco-manipulation policies.
REFERENCES
[1] E. Krotkov, D. Hackett, L. Jackel, M. Perschbacher, J. Pippine,
J. Strauss, G. Pratt, and C. Orlowski, “The DARPA robotics challenge
finals: Results and perspectives,” inThe DARPA robotics challenge
finals: Humanoid robots to the rescue. Springer, 2018, pp. 1–26.
[2] E. Arcari, M. V . Minniti, A. Scampicchio, A. Carron, F. Farshidian,
M. Hutter, and M. N. Zeilinger, “Bayesian multi-task learning MPC for
robotic mobile manipulation,”IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters,
vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 3222–3229, 2023.
[3] M. Zhang, Y . Ma, T. Miki, and M. Hutter, “Learning to open
and traverse doors with a legged manipulator,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2409.04882, 2024.
[4] H. Xiong, R. Mendonca, K. Shaw, and D. Pathak, “Adaptive mobile
manipulation for articulated objects in the open world,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.14403, 2024.
[5] Y . Zhang, Y . Yuan, P. Gurunath, T. He, S. Omidshafiei, A.-A. Agha-
Mohammadi, M. Vazquez-Chanlatte, L. Pedersen, and G. Shi, “FAL-
CON: Learning force-adaptive humanoid loco-manipulation,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.06776, 2025.
[6] T. He, J. Gao, W. Xiao, Y . Zhang, Z. Wang, J. Wang, Z. Luo, G. He,
N. Sobanbab, C. Panet al., “ASAP: Aligning simulation and real-
world physics for learning agile humanoid whole-body skills,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2502.01143, 2025.
[7] C. Zhang, W. Xiao, T. He, and G. Shi, “Wococo: Learning whole-
body humanoid control with sequential contacts,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.06005, 2024.
[8] Z. Fu, Q. Zhao, Q. Wu, G. Wetzstein, and C. Finn, “HumanPlus:
Humanoid shadowing and imitation from humans,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.10454, 2024.
[9] M. Lee, Y . Kwon, S. Lee, J.-H. Choe, J. Park, H. Jeong, Y . Heo, M.-S.
Kim, S. Jo, S.-E. Yoonet al., “Dynamic humanoid locomotion over
rough terrain with streamlined perception-control pipeline,” in2021
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS). IEEE, 2021, pp. 4111–4117.
[10] L. X. Shi, Z. Hu, T. Z. Zhao, A. Sharma, K. Pertsch, J. Luo, S. Levine,
and C. Finn, “Yell at your robot: Improving on-the-fly from language
corrections,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12910, 2024.
[11] T. He, Z. Luo, X. He, W. Xiao, C. Zhang, W. Zhang, K. Kitani,
C. Liu, and G. Shi, “OmniH2O: Universal and dexterous human-
to-humanoid whole-body teleoperation and learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.08858, 2024.
[12] T. Z. Zhao, V . Kumar, S. Levine, and C. Finn, “Learning fine-grained
bimanual manipulation with low-cost hardware,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.13705, 2023.
[13] M. Lee, Y . Heo, J. Park, H.-D. Yang, H.-D. Jang, P. Benz, H. Park,
I. S. Kweon, and J.-H. Oh, “Fast perception, planning, and execution
for a robotic butler: Wheeled humanoid m-hubo,” inIEEE/RSJ Int.
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), 2019.
[14] C. Schwarke, V . Klemm, M. Van der Boon, M. Bjelonic, and M. Hut-
ter, “Curiosity-driven learning of joint locomotion and manipulation
tasks,” inProceedings of the 7th Conference on Robot Learning, vol.
229. PMLR, 2023, pp. 2594–2610.
[15] R. Feng, D. Hu, W. Ma, and X. Li, “Play to the score: Stage-guided
dynamic multi-sensory fusion for robotic manipulation,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.01366, 2024.
[16] T. Jung, J. Lim, H. Bae, K. K. Lee, H.-M. Joe, and J.-H. Oh,
“Development of the humanoid disaster response platform DRC-
HUBO+,”IEEE Transactions on Robotics, 2018.
[17] Q. Ben, F. Jia, J. Zeng, J. Dong, D. Lin, and J. Pang, “Homie:
Humanoid loco-manipulation with isomorphic exoskeleton cockpit,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.13013, 2025.
[18] J. Li, X. Cheng, T. Huang, S. Yang, R.-Z. Qiu, and X. Wang, “AMO:
Adaptive motion optimization for hyper-dexterous humanoid whole-
body control,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.03738, 2025.
[19] X. Cheng, J. Li, S. Yang, G. Yang, and X. Wang, “Open-television:
Teleoperation with immersive active visual feedback,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2407.01512, 2024.
[20] C. Lu, X. Cheng, J. Li, S. Yang, M. Ji, C. Yuan, G. Yang, S. Yi, and
X. Wang, “Mobile-television: Predictive motion priors for humanoid
whole-body control,” in2025 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2025.
[21] X. Cheng, Y . Ji, J. Chen, R. Yang, G. Yang, and X. Wang, “Ex-
pressive whole-body control for humanoid robots,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2402.16796, 2024.
[22] J. Dao, H. Duan, and A. Fern, “Sim-to-Real learning for humanoid
box loco-manipulation,” in2024 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE, 2024, pp. 16 930–16 936.
[23] Z. Luo, J. Cao, J. Merel, A. Winkler, J. Huang, K. Kitani, and
W. Xu, “Universal humanoid motion representations for physics-based
control,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.04582, 2023.
[24] H. Ha, Y . Gao, Z. Fu, J. Tan, and S. Song, “UMI on legs: Making
manipulation policies mobile with manipulation-centric whole-body
controllers,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10353, 2024.
[25] Z. Fu, X. Cheng, and D. Pathak, “Deep whole-body control: Learning
a unified policy for manipulation and locomotion,” inConference on
Robot Learning (CoRL). PMLR, 2023, pp. 138–149.
[26] M. Liu, Z. Chen, X. Cheng, Y . Ji, R.-Z. Qiu, R. Yang, and X. Wang,
“Visual whole-body control for legged loco-manipulation,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2403.16967, 2024.
[27] M. Dalal, M. Liu, W. Talbott, C. Chen, D. Pathak, J. Zhang, and
R. Salakhutdinov, “Local policies enable zero-shot long-horizon ma-
nipulation,” in2025 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA), 2025.
[28] J. Luo, C. Xu, X. Geng, G. Feng, K. Fang, L. Tan, S. Schaal, and
S. Levine, “Multistage cable routing through hierarchical imitation
learning,”IEEE Transactions on Robotics, vol. 40, pp. 1476–1491,
2024.
[29] S. Belkhale, T. Ding, T. Xiao, P. Sermanet, Q. Vuong, J. Tompson,
Y . Chebotar, D. Dwibedi, and D. Sadigh, “RT-H: Action hierarchies
using language,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.01823, 2024.
[30] Y . Fu, D.-K. Kim, J. Kim, S. Sohn, L. Logeswaran, K. Bae, and
H. Lee, “AutoGuide: Automated generation and selection of context-
aware guidelines for large language model agents,” inThe Thirty-
eighth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems,
2024.
[31] Z. He, H. Fang, J. Chen, H.-S. Fang, and C. Lu, “FoAR: Force-aware
reactive policy for contact-rich robotic manipulation,”IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters, 2025.
[32] Y . Hou, Z. Liu, C. Chi, E. Cousineau, N. Kuppuswamy, S. Feng,
B. Burchfiel, and S. Song, “Adaptive compliance policy: Learning
approximate compliance for diffusion guided control,” in2025 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE,
2025, pp. 4829–4836.
[33] Z. Liang, Y . Mu, H. Ma, M. Tomizuka, M. Ding, and P. Luo,
“SkillDiffuser: Interpretable hierarchical planning via skill abstractions
in diffusion-based task execution,” inProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024.
[34] J. Carpentier, G. Saurel, G. Buondonno, J. Mirabel, F. Lamiraux,
O. Stasse, and N. Mansard, “The Pinocchio C++ library – a fast
and flexible implementation of rigid body dynamics algorithms and
their analytical derivatives,” inInternational Symposium on System
Integration (SII), 2019.
[35] Y . Qin, W. Yang, B. Huang, K. Van Wyk, H. Su, X. Wang, Y .-W. Chao,
and D. Fox, “AnyTeleop: A general vision-based dexterous robot arm-
hand teleoperation system,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.04577, 2023.
[36] K. Sohn, H. Lee, and X. Yan, “Learning structured output represen-
tation using deep conditional generative models,”Advances in neural
information processing systems, vol. 28, 2015.